And, uh, I mean, as Eric talks about, uh, on the science side of things, I mean,
I said, uh, like at MIT, especially in the machine learning field,
there's a natural institutional resistance to the weird it's very,
as they talk about it's, it's, it's difficult to hire weird faculty,
for example, correct. You want to hire,
you want to hire and give tenure to people that are safe. Uh, not weird.
And that's one of the concerns is like,
it seems like the weird people are the ones that push the science forward
usually. Right. And so like, how do you, how do you balance the two?
It's not obvious because it's, it's.
Another area where Eric and I disagree as I interpret him,
he thinks academia is totally bankrupt. Yeah.
And I think it's only partially bankrupt. <laugh>.
How do we fix it? Cause I I'm I'm with you, I'm opt I'm bullish in academia.
You need up and coming schools that end up better than where they started off.
And MIT was once one of them. Yes.
Now they're not in every area and some areas they have become the problem. Yep.
You Chicago. Oh, you wouldn't call it up and coming,
but it's still different and that's great.
Let's hope they manage to keep it that way. Uh,
the biggest problem to me is the rank absurd.
Conformism at kind of second tier schools, maybe in the top 40,
but not in the top dozen that are just trying to be like a junior MIT mm-hmm
<affirmative>, but it's mediocre and copycat.
And they're the most dogmatic enforcers of weirdness that like Harvard is more
open than those second tier schools.
And those second tier schools are pretty good typically. Right?
Yeah. But the mediocrity enforced there, correct.
Very strictly.
And the homogenization pressures try climb their rankings by another three
places. Yeah. And be able to little closer to MIT though.
You'll never touch them. Yeah. That to me is very harmful and you'd rather,
they be more like Chicago,
more like Caltech or the older Caltech all the more like pick some model,
be weird in it. You might fail that's socially better.
Yeah. But so the problem with MIT, for example,
is the mediocrity is really enforced on the junior
faculty. Yeah.
So like the people that are allowed to be weird or actually they just don't even
ask for permissions anymore are more senior faculty. And that's good of course,
but you want the weird young people, uh, you know,
I find too, you know, this podcast,
I like talking to tech people and I find the young faculty to be really boring.
They are, they're the most boring of faculty. Their.
Work is interesting, technically technically, but just the,
the, the passion they.
Are drudges <laugh>.
And it's, well, some of them sneak by like, you have like the max tag,
Mark Young version of max Techmark,
who knows how to play the role <laugh> of boring and,
and fitting in. And then on, on the side he does the weird. Uh, but they're not,
they're far and few in between, which I,
I I'd love to figure out a way to shake up that system because.
I, you look at MIT's broad Institute, right. In biomedical,
it's been a huge hit. Yeah. I'm not privy to their internal doings,
but I suspect they support weird more than the formal departments do at
the junior level. Yes. That's.
Probably true. Yeah. I don't know what, whatever they're doing, it's working,
but, uh, it needs to figure it out.
Cause I think the best ideas still do come from the, uh,
so forget my apologies. But for the humanity side of things, I don't,
I don't know anything about, but the engineering and the science side, I,
I think there's so many amazing ideas that are still coming from universities.
It's not true that you don't know anything about the humanities.
You're doing the humanities right now. Well, we're talking about people.
There are no numbers put on a Blackboard, right? Yeah.
There's no hypothesis testing per se. No. Yeah, that's fine.
You have however many subscribers to your podcast,
all listening to you on the humanities, every whatever your frequency is ever,
but.
I'm not in the department of the humanities. That's why it's innovative.
They have very different conversations.
There's the number of emails I get about. Listen, I,
I really deeply respect diversity at the, and the, the,
the full scope of what diversity means,
and also the more narrow scope of different races and genders and so on.
It's a really important topic,
but there's a disproportionate number of emails I'm getting, uh,
about meetings and discussions. And that, that just kind is overwhelming.
I don't get enough emails from people like a meeting about, uh,
why are all your ideas bad? Let's let's, uh, for example,
let me call out MIT. Why don't we do more, uh,
why don't we kick Stanford's or Google's more importantly in deep learning and
machine learning and AI research. What, uh, Cun, for example,
used to be a laboratory is a laboratory for artificial intelligence research.
And why is that? Not the,
the beacon of what of greatness in
artificial intelligence let's have those meetings as well.
Diversity talk has oddly become this new mechanism for enforcing conformity.
Yes, exactly.
And right.
So it's almost like this conformity mechanism finds the hot new topic to use,
to enforce further conformity. Exactly. Uh, boy,
I still of hope I remain optimistic. Uh, but.
The humanities have innovated through podcasts, including yours and mines. Yeah.
And they're alive and well,
all the bad talk you hear about the humanities in universities,
there's been of this huge end run of innovation on the internet. Yeah.
And it's amazing. You're right. I ne never thought, I mean, this is humanities,
<laugh> this, this.
Podcast, right. Not been speaking pros all once life and didn't know it. Right.
Uh.
Yeah. I am actually part of the humanities department and MIT.
Now I didn't did not realize this and I,
I will fully embrace it from this moment on.
Look, you have this thing, the media lab, I'm sure you know about it,
done some excellent things, done a lot of very bogus things.
But you're out competing them. You're blowing them out of the water. Yeah.
Like you are them. Yeah.
And I'm talking to those folks and they they're trying to, well, uh,
they're trying to figure it out. I mean,
they had their issues with Jeffrey Epstein and so on. But outside of that,
there's a, I actually gone through a shift with this particular podcast,
for example,
where at first it was seen as a one,
the very first it was seen as a distraction. Second, it was a source of like,
almost like a kind of jealousy,
like the same kind of jealousy you feel when junior faculty shines the senior
faculty. Of course. And now it's more like, oh, okay, this is a thing like, we,
we should do more of that. We should embrace this guy.
We should embrace this thing.
So there there's a sense that podcasting and whatever this is,
and it doesn't have to podcasting will drive some innovation within MIT,
within different universities. There's a sense that things are changing.
It's just that universities lag behind. And my hope is that,
you know, they catch up quickly. They, they, they,
they innovate in some way that goes along with the innovations of the internet.
Online. I think the internet will outrace them for a long time. Maybe forever.
Well, I mean, but it's okay if they're as long, long as.
They're keeping. Yeah. And we're both in universities.
So we have multiple hats on here as we're speaking.
So we can complain about the universities,
but that's like complaining about the podcasters, right.